All right guys welcome back to the course so far in this PR section we've talked about reporters and
the steps you should take to find contact and pitch them your story.
Now remember that part where we mentioned how lazy reporters are.
Well I think we've mentioned this several times but he and them being lazy means you have opportunities
to jump in and take advantage of their Salafi ways by giving them what they need.
Now in this lecture I want to go over how to prepare a press package.
Another one of those ways you can appeal to the laziness of your reporters to provide them with prepackaged
information about you and your business.
But it's also a means to prepare and perfect all the things reporters will be asking for from you every
time.
They actually want to engage in a story or hear more about it.
Now here's what I mean.
Reporters do research you know on top of writing and dealing with crappy pitches and being lazy and
all that part of that research is figuring out the Who What Where When Why and how the subjects of pitches
and stories basically they need all the information that tells them who you are what you do what you're
all about.
And then you this info is quickly and easily as possible.
Now press package sometimes called a press kit or a media kit.
There is a group of information and documents you put together to answer all these questions and to
provide reporters with approved content like pictures of your products your CEO if you have one your
store and these days press packages might also include videos that you produced.
Now for example check out this media kit that buffer prepared buffer as a social media management tool
a platform pretty much any one can use do stuff like scheduling tweets to sharing ownership of social
media profiles within a company.
Now they've created this downloadable media kit so reporters interested in the company have images they
can use and their stories pictures of their CEO the CEO and the team in Hawaii.
Wow that's really nice.
Plus there's a few different versions of their logo.
Branding is important and you obviously don't want Joe Schmo reporter doing a google image search to
find that one image of your logo that's totally out of proportion and grainy and ugly and you provide
the media with these images.
Well then they don't have to dig around for them and it's one less barrier to them possibly publishing
a story about you that maybe your company isn't the big story maybe you're trying to pitch and promote
your big product into productivity app or the latest version of your phone made for people with very
small hands like Don Trump Samsung created a press kit specifically for the Galaxy Note seven with a
pair of official press releases 20 different photos and the video content as well.
Now the reporters covering this product this kit provided plenty of material they could use.
Unfortunately none of those photos showed the No7 catching on fire.
So reporters had to dig up those photos and videos themselves.
Still the kit was a way for the company to provide lots of official info in one spot without having
to repeatedly pull it all together.
Each time reporter asked for it and that right there is the big benefit of a press package.
It saves you time in the long run each time a reporter or member of the media needs info.
It also allows you to fair official statements photos and other content in advance and to put it in
one place.
Now sometimes it can get confusing internally when different people and company get across for official
info.
Put everyone to the press package online and you'll know that everyone is seeing the right stuff.
If you're looking for more ideas for your own package or press area online cocacola had a pretty impressive
one.
I know a big company they probably should in their press in our Coca-Cola provides a list of press mentions
leadership profiles video and image libraries and press contact list.
Now reporters generally don't need more than this when they're looking for official assets things like
Logos and pictures and descriptions of your products.
If you can provide these things in a central location while you're doing them a favor and saving pretty
much everybody some time.
Sounds good.
OK then we're going to wrap up our thoughts up here in the next lecture.
I'll see you then.